I have the good fortune to be able to make a living doing something I love. I wish I could say that it was an intentional thing, but it has been more of a discovery process. I spent the first part of my career doing finance and strategy work for large corporations. Data visualization was one of several aspects, but it was the one I excelled at and found most compelling. I did enough of the other stuff to get by, but I became increasingly dissatisfied with my career.

The "aha" moment came when I tried to hire a Tableau developer. To my amazement, I couldn't afford the asking price of folks barely out of undergrad. This was my first clue that data visualization was an actual career, and one that was growing in demand. I looked at my experience and strengths and realized I had found the perfect match (I also realized I needed to get really good at Tableau ASAP!). I devoured every book on data visualization I could find - from Stephen Few (major love for Information Dashboard Design) and Edward Tufte, to the more artistic and playful approach of David McCandless. I became captivated by the mix of science and art - the combination of practical insights and visual creativity. I was all in and have been shaping my career to match ever since.

I'm a firm believer in the idea that it's hard to be good at something or even enjoy it if it's not shared with others. I don't pretend to know it all when it comes to data viz, but I've learned a few things that could be helpful to others. At the very least the site can be a forum for others to point out things I still need to learn. I want this to be a forum for sharing what I've learned, getting better at what I love doing, and maybe even connecting with others in the data viz community who are already doing great things.

Dan