# Introducing another blog about data visualization

I'm excited to finally launch the website I've had in my mind for quite awhile. I initially thought I'd use one of those quick and easy wordpress templates, but the data visualization nerd in me couldn't bear the idea of not having total control over the look and feel of the site, so I naively decided to develop it myself. I had no idea what I was signing up for. What I thought would be a straightforward task turned into months of banging my head against the wall learning new tools like CSS, SCSS, React, Redux, and a number of other JavaScript libraries I never want to think about again. I spent way too many hours on it, had more than a few cranky moods, and now have some repair to do with my justifiably annoyed wife. But the site is finally ready for the real world, and while by no means a finished product, I now have something good enough to put it into production. My biggest takeaway from this is a newfound respect for front end developers.

I could go on all day about the craziness of modern web development, but you're here because of an interest in data visualization, or more likely because you're related to me (maybe my mom will now be about to tell people what I do for a living). I have the good fortune to be able to make a living doing something I love. I wish I could say that it was an intentional thing, but it has been more of a discovery process. I spent the first part of my career doing finance and strategy work for large corporations. Data visualization was one of several aspects, but it was the one I excelled at and found most compelling. I did enough of the other stuff to get by, but I became increasingly dissatisfied with my career.

The "aha" moment came when I tried to hire a Tableau developer. To my amazement, I couldn't afford the asking price of folks barely out of undergrad. This was my first clue that data visualization was an actual career, and one that was growing in demand. I looked at my experience and strengths and realized I had found the perfect match (I also realized I needed to get really good at Tableau ASAP!). I devoured every book on data visualization I could find - from Stephen Few (major love for Information Dashboard Design) and Edward Tufte, to the more artistic and playful approach of David McCandless. I became captivated by the mix of science and art - the combination of practical insights and visual creativity. I was all in and have been shaping my career to match ever since.


So back to the website and why it exists. I'm a firm believer in the idea that it's hard to be good at something or even enjoy it if it's not shared with others. I don't pretend to know it all when it comes to data viz, but I've learned a few things that could be helpful to others. At the very least the site can be a forum for others to point out things I still need to learn. I want this to be a forum for sharing what I've learned, getting better at what I love doing, and maybe even connecting with others in the data viz community who are already doing great things.

Dan